This is the directory with the LAML XML DTD parser. In the distribution
we only include the newest version of the parser, currently dtd-parser-4.scm.

In the directory  dtds  you will find DTDs for XHTML1.0 (strict, transitional,
frameset) and SVG. In addition, the LAML scripts that parse theses DTDs are also
included.

Parsing a DTD:
  
    (parse-dtd "<dtd-file-without-extension>")

This will not make any HTML mirror functions, however - just parse the
DTD to a List structure (a file with lsp extension).

See the reference manual in the ./man directory for additional details 
(Section 1).

Please see doc/dtd-parser.html for (old) internal documentation of the DTD
parser. In the LAML distribution, please look this documentation up at

  http://www.cs.auc.dk/~normark/scheme/tools/dtd-parser/doc/html/

KN



History: 

dtd-parser.scm is the original ad hoc dtd parse, made for html4.0 loose.
It includes rhs parsing of selected elements.

dtd-parser-1.scm is another version, fully independent of dtd-parser.scm, which
is made for xhtml1.0 strict. See the first few comment lines of dtd-parser-1.scm
for an explanation of the differences.
dtd-parser-1 now also parses right hand sides.

dtd-parser-2.scm is a third version for XML dtd parsing, with full parsing of
right hand sides.

dtd-parser.scm, dtd-parser-1.scm and dtd-parser-2.scm are obsolute by now. Only
dtd-parser-3.scm is included in the distribution.

dtd-parser-3.scm is an version adapted for the SVG DTD parsing.
This version has a much impoved attribute parsing, which conforms to the XML recommendation 
(to a reasonable degree, at least). 

dtd-parser-4.scm.
The major improvements in this version is parsing of the 'right hand sides' of the XML productions
(the content models). The fully automatic validating of XML-in-LAML languages rely on this.

  LAML after version 20.
  May 27, 2003: 

   * We could not parse attributes like <!ELEMENT title (#PCDATA)>
     due to missing white space just before '>'. This restriction has now been lifted.

   * We assumed that empty attribute list declarations were given explicitly. 
     We now insert such empty attribute declarations automatically.






