This directory contains a reference implementation for
the (rnrs unicode) library of R6RS.

This reference implementation consists of the following files:

    README              what you're reading

    unicode.sls         (local unicode), equivalent to (rnrs unicode)
    unicode0.sls        definitions of general utility procedures
    unicode1.sls        definitions of the character procedures
    unicode2.sls        the word-breaking algorithm defined by UAX #29
    unicode3.sls        definitions of string casing and comparison procedures
    unicode4.sls        definitions of the four normalization procedures

    unicode-tests.sch         basic tests
    check-wordbreaking.scm    tests of word boundaries (unicode2.sls)
    check-normalization.scm   tests of normalization (unicode4.sls)

    parseUCD.sch        almost-R5RS code to generate the tables
                            in unicode*.sls
    strategy.sch        definition of decision-strategy, which was used
                            to write several hand-coded unary predicates

This version of the reference implementation should be
compatible with Unicode revision 5.0.0.  It passes all
normalization and word-breaking tests for Unicode 5.0.0.

This version of the reference implementation has not been
updated for Unicode 5.1.0.  It therefore fails 1354 of the
355360 normalization tests and 39 of the 978 word-breaking
tests for Unicode 5.1.0.

To change the reference implementation to support a more
recent version of Unicode, you will have to regenerate the
tables using parseUCD.sch.

To reduce the number of tables and to increase the speed
of certain operations, many numeric constants of revision
5.0.0 are hard-wired into the code; to find all such places
(except for ASCII characters, whose properties should never
change), search the unicode*.sls files for "FIXME" comments.
Most of the hard-wired constants were generated from Unicode
data files by the decision-strategy procedure defined in
strategy.sch, but some constants were obtained by inspecting
Unicode data files.

For license information, see the copyright files at the top
of each file.

This reference implementation is written in R6RS Scheme and
has been tested in Larceny v0.963 and in PLT Scheme v4.0.2.

Two of the three test programs, unicode-tests.sch and
check-normalization.scm, are easily modified to test the
standard (rnrs unicode) library instead of the reference
implementation's (local unicode) library; so modified,
those two test programs have been run in Larceny, PLT
Scheme, and Ypsilon.

                                * * *

Enjoy!

William D Clinger
29 May 2007
revised 5 August 2008
